---
layout: page
title:  "Experiment 2"
has_children: true
---

## Experiment 2 – Concept classification in metafeature subgroups

After the first experiment, the calculated metaattribute values and concept indexes were retained for further analysis.

The second experiment aimed to verify the potential of metafeatures to identify concepts objectively. The ability of five classifiers, whose implementation came from the scikit-learn \citep{scikit-learn} library, to correctly recognize the concept was evaluated. The following classifiers were tested: GNB, KNN, SVM, DT, and MLP, each time assuming their default hyperparameterization. The quality of the classification was evaluated in a 5-times repeated stratified 2-fold cross-validation protocol. In the case of synthetic streams with sudden drift and semi-synthetic streams with the nearest drift, the problem was not characterized by a large imbalance. However, in the case of other streams, some of the concepts were short-term, significantly contributing to the class imbalance of the meta-problem. Therefore, it was decided to use the balanced accuracy metric for all cases. The experiment separately evaluated three stream categories (synthetic, semi-synthetic, and real-world).

Disjoint subgroups of the calculated metafeatures were considered to determine which of them carry information valuable in the concept recognition task. In the meta-problem, each chunk of data was identified as a single pattern whose features were described by the values of metaattributes from a given group. The label of the instance was the concept identifier. Patterns were randomly shuffled before starting the experiment.